nginx-proxy/README.md, before:

# Nginx RPC Proxy

A reverse proxy for handling RPC requests with provider failover and configuration reloading.

## How It Works

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Client] --> B[NGINX Proxy]
    B --> C{Valid Request?}
    C -->|Yes| D[Providers Cache]
    C -->|No| E[Return Error]
    D --> F{Provider Available?}
    F -->|Yes| G[Forward Request]
    F -->|No| H[Return Error]
    G --> I[Provider]
    I --> J[Return Response]
    J --> B
    K[Providers checker service] --> D
    L[Local providers.json] --> D
```

The nginx RPC proxy handles requests through the following process:

1. Receives HTTP POST requests with chain/network in the URL path (format: `/chain/network`)
2. Validates the chain/network format
3. Looks up available providers for the requested chain/network combination
4. Attempts to forward the request to the first available provider
5. If the provider fails, automatically tries the next provider in the list
6. Returns the successful provider's response to the client
7. If all providers fail, returns an error response
8. Periodically reloads provider configuration to maintain up-to-date provider lists

## Local Development

To run locally:

```bash
./build_docker_locally_run.sh
```

This will:
1. Create a Docker network
2. Build the Docker image
3. Remove any existing container
4. Start the proxy on port 8080

## Deployment

1. Build the Docker image:
```bash
docker build -t rpc-proxy .
```

2. Run the container:
```bash
docker run -d --name rpc-proxy \
  --network rpc-network \
  -p 8080:8080 \
  -e CONFIG_HEALTH_CHECKER_URL=http://rpc-health-checker:8080/providers \
  rpc-proxy
```

## Provider List Configuration

The proxy fetches providers from:
1. Primary source: URL specified in CONFIG_HEALTH_CHECKER_URL environment variable
2. Fallback: Local providers.json file

### Provider List Format

The providers list is a JSON file with the following structure:
```json
{
  "chains": [
    {
      "name": "chain-name-lowercase",
      "network": "network-name-lowercase",
      "providers": [
        {
          "url": "http://provider1",
          "authType": "no-auth|token-auth|basic-auth",
          "authToken": "optional-token",
          "authLogin": "optional-username",
          "authPassword": "optional-password"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Request Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant Proxy
    participant Provider
    Client->>Proxy: POST /chain/network
    Proxy->>Proxy: Validate request
    Proxy->>Proxy: Load providers
    loop Try Providers
        Proxy->>Provider: Forward request
        Provider-->>Proxy: Return response/error
    end
    Proxy-->>Client: Return final response
```

## Request Format

Requests must be in the format:
```
POST /chain/network
```

With JSON body containing the RPC request.

Example:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/ethereum/mainnet \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_blockNumber","params":[],"id":1}'
```

## Authentication

The proxy requires HTTP basic authentication. Credentials are stored in `.htpasswd`.

Commit message:

Support provider type param (#19)
* feat(health-checker)_: move content lua code from nginx.conf

fixes #17

* feat(nginx-proxy)_: support provider id as 3rd parameter in request path

fixes #17

* feat(health-checker)_: add provider type to RPCProvider struct
fixes #17

nginx-proxy/README.md, after:

# Nginx RPC Proxy

A reverse proxy for handling RPC requests with provider failover and configuration reloading.

## How It Works

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Client] --> B[NGINX Proxy]
    B --> C{Valid Request?}
    C -->|Yes| D[Providers Cache]
    C -->|No| E[Return Error]
    D --> F{Provider Available?}
    F -->|Yes| G[Forward Request]
    F -->|No| H[Return Error]
    G --> I[Provider]
    I --> J[Return Response]
    J --> B
    K[Providers checker service] --> D
    L[Local providers.json] --> D
```

The nginx RPC proxy handles requests through the following process:

1. Receives HTTP POST requests with chain/network in the URL path:
   - Format 1: `/chain/network` - uses any available provider with failover across all providers
   - Format 2: `/chain/network/provider_type` - uses providers of the specified type with failover between instances of that type
2. Validates the chain/network format
3. Looks up available providers for the requested chain/network combination
4. For requests without provider_type:
   - Attempts to forward the request to each available provider in sequence
   - Returns the first successful response
   - If all providers fail, returns a 502 error
5. For requests with provider_type:
   - Finds all providers matching the requested type
   - Attempts to forward the request to each matching provider in sequence
   - Returns the first successful response
   - If no matching providers found, returns a 404 error
   - If all matching providers fail, returns a 502 error
6. Periodically reloads provider configuration to maintain up-to-date provider lists

## Local Development

To run locally:

```bash
./build_docker_locally_run.sh
```

This will:
1. Create a Docker network
2. Build the Docker image
3. Remove any existing container
4. Start the proxy on port 8080

## Deployment

1. Build the Docker image:
```bash
docker build -t rpc-proxy .
```

2. Run the container:
```bash
docker run -d --name rpc-proxy \
  --network rpc-network \
  -p 8080:8080 \
  -e CONFIG_HEALTH_CHECKER_URL=http://rpc-health-checker:8080/providers \
  rpc-proxy
```

## Provider List Configuration

The proxy fetches providers from:
1. Primary source: URL specified in CONFIG_HEALTH_CHECKER_URL environment variable
2. Fallback: Local providers.json file

### Provider List Format

The providers list is a JSON file with the following structure:
```json
{
  "chains": [
    {
      "name": "chain-name-lowercase",
      "network": "network-name-lowercase",
      "providers": [
        {
          "type": "provider-type",
          "name": "provider-name",
          "url": "http://provider1",
          "authType": "no-auth|token-auth|basic-auth",
          "authToken": "optional-token",
          "authLogin": "optional-username",
          "authPassword": "optional-password"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Request Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant Proxy
    participant Provider
    Client->>Proxy: POST /chain/network
    Proxy->>Proxy: Validate request
    Proxy->>Proxy: Load providers
    loop Try Providers
        Proxy->>Provider: Forward request
        Provider-->>Proxy: Return response/error
        end
    Proxy-->>Client: Return final response
```

## Request Format

Requests must be in one of two formats:
```
POST /chain/network
POST /chain/network/provider_type
```

With JSON body containing the RPC request.

Examples:
```bash
# Use any available provider with failover
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/ethereum/mainnet \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_blockNumber","params":[],"id":1}'

# Use Infura providers with failover between Infura instances
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/ethereum/mainnet/infura \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_blockNumber","params":[],"id":1}'
```

## Authentication

The proxy requires HTTP basic authentication. Credentials are stored in `.htpasswd`.
